I would like you to be gaining a
very deep knowledge of business
models in the digital world, and
what we're going to do today
is to analyze a number of
common patterns.
There are companies, for example, like
Amazon, that combine many of the patterns
we're going to see today, right?
But each pattern has a particular
characteristic, and has
a particular functioning.
That is, as I said in the first
class, the pieces fit in a coherent
way, right? in each pattern.
Let's start with something you already
know, which is e-commerce.
E-commerce was the first business
model that was born on the
Internet.
After all, e-commerce, so
you understand, a pure
e-commerce is a store.
What happens is that it is a store
that, instead of selling through the
physical distribution channel,
sells through the website.
And within e-commerce we can englobate
from the web page through which
Zara sells, for example, or e-
commerce that are pure e-commerce,
as can Zappos, which is
an e-commerce that Amazon
acquired.
An online supermarket is an e-commerce.
If we analyze the business
model, we see that it has the
same characteristics as a store,
that a retailer.
And it is that it has to stock, it
has to buy, and in addition
to its costs it has a variable cost
for the goods sold, right?
This is very simple.
Let us now look at what a marketplace
is.
By the way, regarding the business
model of platform, marketplace,
etc., we will devote many
classes to it.
We will take a whole
course later.
Well, I will move it forward.
Unlike an e-commerce, an e-commerce
is a store, a marketplace
is a marketplace.
In a marketplace, supply and
demand are connected.
We have a marketplace for products,
as can be, for example, the case
of the super.
For example, if we compare an online
supermarket, as we talked
before, it is an e-commerce
with the supermarket.
Del super is a platform that
connects supermarkets with
buyers, right?
Therefore, in the business model
this has many repercussions
because you do not have to stock,
you do not have to buy, and it
does not have variable costs
as we have seen from the goods sold.
This is a product marketplace.
You buy and sell a product.
There are marketplaces where
the exchange is services.
There is supply and demand, but it is service.
Services are shared, such as Airbnb,
which is accommodation services,
or Booking, for example, in
which they are hotel reservations,
right?
and services.
And I want to talk about another model
that is growing very much, especially
it is being given in companies
like Amazon or Zalando, which I
have called IPA.
Instead of a marketplace, which is
a market, this would be a hypermarket.
Why is it?
Because there is a fact
that there are companies
that are growing huge.
Amazon is the clearest example of all.
Diversifying in all types
of products, services, etc.
So, they have already overtaken the
concept of the marketplace.
They are entering absolutely everything.
And the strategy of hyper companies like
Amazon or Zalando is to bar the competition
from where they come in.
Why is it?
They have a scale economy.
They have a scale economy, a huge
strength by the millions and millions
of people in the world who are
customers, who are able to enter,
diversify and enter any
type of business and
bar the competition within
that business.
I didn't want to put it
in the marketplaces.
I think it is something else.
And I think it's something we don't know
where it will take.
It has an impact in
many sectors.
Think of Amazon.
The millions of users you have.
Everyone has paid with cards,
they are used to buying.
There are people who buy, I buy,
I don't put you every day, but
almost every day on Amazon.
If Amazon diversifies and offers me
something more, it's that it's so easy
that I start buying that category
within Amazon.
This is causing great damage
in many sectors.
I don't judge it, but it is the reality.
There are many companies that
offer a free service, free of
charge, to all their customers,
to all their users.
Facebook and Google.
Have you ever wondered how they
make money?
It's pretty easy to be how they make
money, but well, let's analyze it.
This model can be called a free
model.
Or we might call it a advertising
And what consists?
It consists of, thanks to offering
a free service, in the case of Facebook,
what they offer you is a social network
in which you connect with
people.
In the case of Google, it is a search engine.
Regardless of what they are offering
you, the fact is that you access
a value they provide you for free.
And that allows them to capture
millions and millions of people around
the world.
And what they do is monetize those
millions of people, that huge critical
mass through advertisers.
This can be called a advertising model.
You have to remember that this is
the key, really, of these free models.
They have a lot of information.
There are two factors, right?
A lot of data from each
user.
And they also have the fact that
the user spends a lot of time
inside the application, the
website, etc.
They have what is called user
attention, data and attention.
These two values are sold to advertising
companies in different formats.
But that's what they get to monetize,
data and attention.
In the end, they have advertising revenues.
Advertisers pay Facebook,
Google, there are so many examples,
right?
Therefore, we have users, end users,
that we are all users, that
we access for free, something that
does not support in value.
And there are others behind, the customers
really, who are the ones who pay,
who are advertisers, right?
In addition to the free model, there
are companies that opt for a freemium
model, which is, in addition to attracting
users with a free proposal,
what they offer is a service
of higher added value, which
you pay.
For example, Skype, Spotify, we'll
see it in more detail, we've already
seen it.
In this case, we have, like in
the free model, we have millions
of users, the key is to capture
millions of people, but we do
not monetize them directly
with advertising, we do not monetize
them from the data that we leave
and the time that passes, but
we monetize them because
there is a percentage
of soils that pay a quota.
Is it worth?
Let us now talk about the business
model, the subscription
pattern, which we had already
seen when we talked about revenue flows.
Subscription is growing a lot.
Netflix is a common case, but look,
it's what you're watching, they're
incorporating subscription
offers of all kinds of things.
You wear shaves, for example,
pay a monthly fee and
get knives to shave.
Or pants of everything.
Complements for men, for women,
of all kinds.
There are subscriptions of all kinds.
And why?
What is what happens?
Well, what happens is that an
important concept, a concept I
want you to learn is that the customer
lifetime value, the value that
the company gets from customers
with subscription accounts,
usually throughout the
customer's life is higher.
In the end, the customer is more
profitable.
Not only that, but there is
a very important component
of security, recurrence of income.
Afeitas, the case that put you, if
I sold knives and spare parts,
would have less stable sales,
but subscription allows you to
have a recurrent income
that is very valued, very
safe.
Look, now I'm going to talk about
a pattern, a trend that is being
given in the business model of many
companies, like Amazon for example,
I think it's the most important
case, which I have called
the pyramid.
And this, if you go
to a ranking, to any
ranking of digital business
models you won't find
it, but I think it's a
trend that is growing a lot.
I explain it to you.
This is related to the distribution
channel.
Companies all their lives, their
distribution channels, have
relied on distributors or on
internal sales force.
That was the way to sell.
Well, companies like Amazon or for
example like MyProtein, sports supplement
companies, of many types, what
they create is an affiliate program
of partners to which anyone, almost
anyone, can subscribe,
whether you have a website, a
blog, whatever, an application
or a group on Telegram in which
you have a lot of followers,
you subscribe and you
what you do is to promote
certain products from
Amazon or MyProtein for example
and earn money with it.
What are these companies achieving
with their partnerships?
Well, what they can do is have a super-
potent distribution channel with very
large capillaries that doesn't cost them
anything, doesn't cost them to manage
it, doesn't cost them to look for
it, capture it, form it, create
it, etc.
The management of the physical
distribution channel of the distributors,
stores and such, is something that
takes, that has a lot of cost, requires
a lot of management and a lot of
focus, but it is that this type
of affiliate programs can exercise
ultra-scalable rapidly and it
is something we have to keep
in mind because it will grow.
There will be more companies
in the coming years that incorporate
these partners programs and
allow them to grow very scalably,
relying on the traffic
generated by others.
Finally, I want to talk about the
on demand model.
Finally, I will talk about the
models on demand.
Within the on-demand models we
find companies whose value
proposal makes life more comfortable.
It allows us to hire services
that we have always been
able to hire, but in a more
agile, more comfortable
way, saving time, etc.
And I give you examples, Cavify
or Uber, which is a service similar
to taxis, or Clean2, where
you can hire home cleaning
services, or Mr. D.
Jeff, who hire at home
tinting, laundry,
or an app like Globo, where
you hire urban messaging
services.
The idea is clear, what
is it?
And with regard to the business model,
the challenge they have is that they
have to develop an enormous
ecosystem of alliances that are the
providers of those services, which
depends on each company and on each model.
In some cases, they are people, such
as the Globo distributors, or in some
cases, they are companies.
I think Mr.
Jeff has tinteders behind.
You have to develop a huge ecosystem
of alliances.
And this is the key, manage that ecosystem
of alliances, because in accordance,
say, with the capillary,
the quality of the alliances you
have behind, you will provide
a faster, more agile and higher
quality service to the users
of the application.